Test Driven Development (TDD) is a software development methodology in which you write and run a set of tests before writing any code. You start with having your tests fail, and write code to pass the test cases. As I believe that TDD can improve a developer’s overall ability as both a developer and a tester, there are pros and cons that can be identified with TDD. The first pro is having to force yourself to automate testing which in turn, makes for a less time consuming quality assurance. The second pro is that because you write the tests first, the quality of tests will naturally be much higher, as you don’t need to rush due to any urgent deadlines. Testing will often be rushed when there is urgency, and thus, make for poor testing where not all cases are considered and tests may be brittle. However, with TDD and tests written first, the development must be completed, and the tests will ensure that it is completed thoroughly (with the pass/fail criteria) even through urgent scenarios. Furthermore, this will give the developer much more confidence at time of deployment because it is made apparent as to whether they have passed all success criteria or not. Another pro for TDD is that it helps the programmer strongly understand their code and the tests give them a clear goal to work towards. Moreover, because TDD is built on different unit tests and other tests of different scales, it forces you to make your code modular (good architecture) in order to have your code be unit-testable. TDD provides better clarity and architecture for written code, which helps facilitate maintenance, collaboration, documentation, refactoring, early discovery of issues, and more in the long run. There are many pros to TDD, and this is just the surface of what TDD has to offer.
Nevertheless, with every good idea, there are always new problems that arise. TDD is a powerful methodology to follow, but there are some cons to be wary of. The first of which involves the maintenance of the test suite itself, and its complexity, especially beyond the unit testing level. Because you have to strongly understand the code to write tests before any code is written, development is much slower initially, and it can be very tedious having to get a firm grasp of it all and write tests before making any progress on development. In addition, more tests equates to longer builds, meaning you must continuously refine the tests or remove any redundant tests. Most cons of TDD is a result of the overwhelmingly arduous early stages, requiring the programmer to understand, plan, figure out, and accomplish so much before any development progress can be made. However, TDD can pay off in the long run given its extensive list of benefits. In my opinion, the pros of TDD outweigh the cons; the confidence that comes from avoiding any rushed testing and ability to develop and test can help improve any programmer tenfold.
